all right hey everyone in the sastra
community
here with one of our favorite and most
iconic
cloud ceos and founders jeff lawson jeff
has
done great things with the sasha
community going back to joining us just
after twilio ipod i think at the 2017
annual
he was actually i think gonna come to
the 2016 annual um
but the ipo got in the way and he was
kind enough to come back he's done a
bunch of things with us since kovid
giving us insights into how he dealt
with the last couple downturns and this
one's fun he's got
his first ever book out it is at
www.askyourdeveloper.com
and i read voraciously do you read a lot
jeff half how much do you read on a
given day or week do you read everything
i try to i would i really wish i was a
better reader than i am like i you know
when covid started and
we all got locked in our homes i was
like okay well at least i'm going to
read a lot
and i feel like i've read you know half
of many books
half of it during covid uh and but uh
nonetheless you usually get you get most
of the knowledge out of the first half
of the book with the notable exception i
would say of my book which of course all
the way to last page is just absolutely
chock full of useful information if
anything read just the last page not the
first page
well i will say i loved it um
and i want to i i i'm going to ask you
next who the target audiences but i want
to recommend your book for one audience
and it's particularly on point for folks
that will be listening
or watching this which is that there is
a large group of folks who are
maybe let's call them business ceos or
business leaders line of business
leaders
that have never put ship put code into
production or never really worked
as a partner with a cto and engineering
leader
and they tend to view engineers as weird
beasts
as folks that will type on a keyboard
and produce code for them as folks
measured even just by story points and
nothing else
um and they'll quit right the best ones
will all quit and i
and i say if you don't engineers are
some of the most
the best engineers are the most creative
people on the planet right i mean i
haven't written codes since i was
in high school but the best ones they're
the 10x ones you want to keep them and
you don't know how to work with them if
you haven't and read your book
the stories here of how to retain
attract inspire
what the best folks are looking for how
to challenge them how to get them to
do great projects um how not to
micromanage i mean you can tell me we
can talk about some of these stories but
this is the insider's guide to working
with the great engineering team this is
what it is there's great stories and
others but
but buy the book read it if if you're
that person
would you concur with that as a target
persona
well jason that's exactly what i had in
mind when i wrote the book so i'm glad
that
i'm glad that came through look you know
i've got a pretty
uh unique vantage point as a software
developer myself but also the ceo
of a public company and so i really see
both sides of
this equation right as a developer i
understand kind of what
typically might go on in a developer's
head what skill sets
they bring to the table uh but also how
the process of building
software works and it's complicated it's
hard and it's failure prone
and so it's a complicated thing but i
also
am a business executive and so i've got
like kind of the business side in my
head and i'm thinking about
where we need to go as a company and the
things we need to build and i
like many business executives can get
frustrated like of course we want
better software shipped faster for you
know with less uh
people needed and all sorts of things
like that and
so i sought out to write a book that
tries to bridge those two worlds because
i find that
most businesses and many business
leaders don't really
know how to speak the same language as
developers don't really know
what happens in the process of building
software and so the result is they get
very confusing answers to
what they think are simple questions
like can't you tell me
what we're gonna ship when we're gonna
ship it
you know like what features it's gonna
have and the date we're gonna launch it
because like
it makes sense to you like of course
we've got a marketing event we got a big
conference we've got
you know we got a launch date we've got
pr lined up whatever you need to tell me
if we're going to launch it or not and
the developers will give you as well
you know i can tell you when we're going
to launch it but i can't tell you what
it's going to have in it or i can tell
you
what it's going to have in it but i
can't tell you when we're going to
launch it and it's like infuriating you
want to pull your hair out
you can see i've had this conversation a
lot for people listening to the podcast
i am bald
um and so it's like you know there's a
lot of these conversations or these
other ones right as a manager
you know the basic tool that managers
have is budget
and so you know if a project is is late
and it's you know not going to finish on
time
what is our our tendencies to say okay
well i'm just going to hand you a bunch
more money and now it's going to be on
time because you can just you know put
more people on it
and the answer is well it doesn't really
work like that you can't just throw more
money or people
at a late project and expect it to catch
up in fact if anything
that will make it further delayed and
these are totally counter-intuitive
answers to these simple questions that
are really frustrating for business
people and so what i sought to do is to
write a book
that really tried to bridge the two
worlds to give a common parlance
to both the technical side and the
non-technical side to be able to talk
the same language
but also to provide a bit of context and
you know the first part of the book i
talk about why this is so important as
many business leaders i'm sure
already have found software is becoming
the lifeblood of nearly every company
in every industry because every industry
is turning into a software industry
you know mark andreessen now 15 years
ago said software is eating the world
and of course we look back and we say
wow that was very prescient and he was
right but he didn't really talk about
how that was going to happen like he
didn't talk about
the talent that's needed or like you
know you might think the software writes
itself in some sort of
terminator-esque uh you know uh
apocalyptic conditions
it can just be outsourced yeah or yeah
and by the way when he said that
in like the early 2000s outsourcing i.t
was pretty much all the rage it was
thought of as
oh you know cheaper and you said oh like
you know i just have these like
you know administering laptops and maybe
i've got some like
big software like to run my financials
or my my erp
or my hr okay great like that is not
differentiating that's not how i'm going
to win it's not a core competency i want
to outsource it
but what happened over the subsequent 15
years
is that the interface that most
businesses have with their customers
has become a digital interface think
about your bank
right you know 15 years ago 20 years ago
your bank was a storefront in your
neighborhood that you walked into
and you liked your bank if it was
decorated nicely and it was clean
and the teller was friendly and they
gave your kid a lollipop
that was what made you say i like my
bank but now your bank
is a mobile app on your phone and so the
things that make you like your bank are
is the app
fast does it work well are they
innovating to provide new features and
functionality
that make my life easier that's what
makes your bank a good bank
and so in that world it is no longer
something to be outsourced
it is the source of competitive
differentiation
in the eyes of your customers and so
very quickly as
one company figures that out and starts
hiring developers
and uh and building software listening
to customers and going through that
iteration cycle of building software
and then learning from customers and
building some more
one company starts doing that and the
other ones take notice because that one
starts
starts winning customers hearts and
minds and wallets and pretty soon every
company
in an industry has to adopt that mindset
too and i like to say that
you know it used to be in the old world
of i.t you had these classic build
versus buy
decisions are we going to build
something are we going to buy it
right and now it's become build versus
die because if you aren't
building software that answers your
customers needs and your competitors are
there's a darwinian evolution that comes
along and
the companies are able to adapt most
quickly to the changing needs of
customers and the changing competitive
landscape those are the ones that are
able to survive and the companies that
essentially just bought an off-the-shelf
solution and are sitting there as the
world is progressing and they're like
well
it doesn't do the thing or customers
want oh well well guess what customers
are gonna notice and eventually
customers are going to
choose to do business with folks who are
meeting their needs better and that
in the modern economy in the digital era
that is fueled by building software that
customers love
and so the stakes for deploying
developer talent
and putting them to work building these
great products and experiences that
customers love
you know the stakes have never been
higher because i think it is literally
existential
in many industries and for many
companies that they become good at being
able to listen to customers
and build the software and the
experiences that customers need of them
in order to compete and win in the
digital economy and that's why the
stakes are so high
yeah it's funny i was just i was just
looking at switching one of our banking
relationships at faster it's not a
twilio scale but it's moving
20 million dollars a year through a
specialty bank first thing on the on the
zoom was
well our mobile app isn't very good
first thing out of their mouths
that's not the first thing you want to
hear at least they disclosed it at least
they are up front but rather than
talking about
uh all the other adventures they have
like we just got to tell you you're a
tech guy
uh our mobile app is not very good
and we still haven't switched our
business um
one thing on all this you you mentioned
in the book that you
you first learned about sort of the two
pizza box style of building software
back at amazon right when you were an
engineer
um let's push on that a little bit what
you've learned at twilio right as an
engineer turn
turn founder turn ceo how does that
scale
and what does it mean if you can't
attract
the top tier of talent right can two
pizza boxes build something
if you can't attract you're not you
don't have as high profile companies
twilio if you can't build that type of
engineering team how does that work in
practice
and does it work if your engineering
team is not top tier
well i think that you know everybody
tends to think
that these digital projects first of all
need to be big
uh they need to be a big initiative big
endeavor
and they think that uh you need to have
like large teams
and you need to have a lot of money put
towards them and actually i think that
the opposite is quite true
i think that getting started small is
the way to get started
yeah um and that's where this this two
pizza team comes into play this idea
that
you know prog the engine of progress
inside of a company
is a small team less than 10 people who
are focused on a particular customer
and a particular customer problem uh and
those define the mission of that team as
well as the metrics of their success in
solving that problem for that customer
because first of all the best talent
doesn't want to work and feel like
they're just a cog in the machine they
don't say oh i'm one of 500 people
working in this company on a vague set
of problems you know it's like
yeah that's just human you want to have
impact and so that's the first thing
the second thing is when you're on a
small team you are very close to the
customer and the problem
you're solving and so you know the
abstractions that sit between you and
your customers tend to melt away
because you have to have proximity to
the customer problem you have to know
what problem you're solving for the
customer in order to be
a productive member of such a small team
yeah and
one of the core ideas in ask your
developer
is the fact that you should share
problems
not solutions with developers
so instead of saying here developer you
know in many companies
the idea of like there's business people
they're the ones who you know decide
what we're going to build
and they go out and talk to customers
and they go out and write specifications
documents you know prds product
requirements documents things like that
and they throw it over the wall to
developers and then developers just
write code
that matches that specification and then
everyone's happy and the reality is that
doesn't work out very well
but if a developer doesn't know why
they're writing the code the writing
doesn't understand the customer's
problem like sure they can dutifully
write code that implements some solution
but it may be very well be wrong and the
developer won't know it or won't care
and everything takes 10 times as long
when there's no uh intrinsic motivation
for like oh i'm writing i'm writing a
thing that's going to solve a big
customer problem versus
i'm writing a thing that meets a
specification that i have no idea why
i'm writing it
and so my belief is that by bringing
your developers close to the problem
so share the problem what is the
customer problem or business problem
we're trying to solve
bring the full team into that problem
and have them solve it that's the
essence of what small teams are able to
do
and so you've got a like a product
manager a bunch of engineers maybe a ui
designer maybe a qa engineer like you
know you every company's got a slightly
different way they orchestrate these
teams
but ultimately that team exists to solve
the customer problem
not just to write specs that somebody in
a far off land wrote for them
and how do you get them to talk to
customers well there's a lot of
mechanisms
to to get proximity between
the developers and technical talent and
customers
i certainly by the way don't advocate
that like uh the developers spend like
all their time or like putting them on
customer support all the time
that wouldn't be the best use of a
developer's time
however as companies grow it's very
common for their for their walls to come
up
functional silos to come up that are
designed to quote unquote protect
those developers from customers i.e like
there's you know customer support has
processes to prevent escalations to
engineers
yes or sales has you know sales
engineering
to prevent the sales cycles from having
to interact with engineering
and product managers often see their
role as i'm here to protect my engineers
from having to talk to customers and so
my main messages
recognize that companies build up these
systems that are designed to prevent
customer interactions from engineers and
by the way a lot of those are helpful
again i would say that you know you
don't want every sales cycle to be
you know in front of engineers you don't
want every customer support interaction
to have to reach your engineers but if
you do that really well
what you end up doing is shielding those
engineers from customer problems and so
what you need to do is poke holes
in those silos you know ways to do that
uh
there have been times at twilio where we
have all of our engineers take turns
doing support
you know like two days a year not huge
yeah i like it once
a day a day a quarter exactly and
spend time with customers in that
context you can get a very different
sense of things that customers are
struggling with
you know i i did that you know a few
years ago and i remember
about three quarters of the tickets i
handled in that day were the same
problem
same time there was a there was a there
was a a back end
process that was not yet customer facing
that three quarters of the tickets i did
that day were me
operating this back end system on behalf
of our customers that they had to write
into a ticket and wait
whatever a day two days for it to get
solved for them and the first thing i
did after i finished my shift was i
asked
how come we haven't built this as a
customer facing
you know workflow right it just seems to
make sense if three quarters of our
tickets at least that i handled that day
were about this
and you know so you get these
instinctive understandings of things
that need to get
get solved when you have that direct
customer interaction i also believe that
developers
should periodically go on sales calls
you know and they don't
they're not like you know the center of
the meeting they're just they're just
tagging along basically i want to hear
directly from a customer what they're
doing everyone loves that don't they
everyone that
is connected to the customers loves it
yeah everybody you know the sales people
love it the engineers should love it the
customer would would love it that you've
got engineers who are interested in
learning about their
business and their problem everybody
would love it and it's like great you
can do that for one day a quarter
one you know one day every six months
this is not like onerous but you need to
poke holes in those silos if developers
are going to get
access to customers but more than
anything it's sharing the
problem so if you go to a developer and
you say hey you know i need you to build
this and you just specify out it's a
forum with a field that says name and
it's got 40 characters long and blah
blah blah
like they'll write that but if you go to
a developer and say hey
we're trying to make it so that
customers can open an account
in less than one minute because our
current thing that requires 10 minutes
or an hour or three days or whatever it
is is slowing down our business and
frustrating customers
then the developer can get to work
saying hmm how would i design a really
great workflow
so that we can ease uh customer pain in
this in this
part of our business and those are the
kinds of things that really make a
difference because now developers have
this intrinsic motivation it's like a
challenge you issue a challenge to the
developer
how easy how great can we make this they
will stand up to that challenge but if
you tell them we need a field that is 40
characters long
that's not much of a challenge that's
just a task right
and so that's it now you asked earlier
jason an interesting question like what
if you can't get the best
developers yeah now i think this notion
look certainly there's some developers
in the world who are more productive
than others
uh that is certainly true however you
can't bet on having those engineers and
you can't bet on their success and even
if you have one on your team
you can't bet on them staying at your
company necessarily nor
do other engineers necessarily want to
work with those types of engineers so
it's not really a strategy
it's not a strategy to say i'm only
going to hire these like you know
top one percent you know 10x developers
and that's how i'm going to build my
company the strategy is how do i take a
wide variety of engineers
and make them work together as a team to
get to get consistently great output
that's not hinged on any one person
and um and that is uh i think
the small team and the um
focus on customer problems really help
you to do that because
you know early in twilio we would hire
developers who also had offers at like
google or facebook or
you know big just big tech companies and
we couldn't match their salaries we
couldn't match their equity like we
couldn't match a whole lot of what those
companies are offering but we could say
is this
you are going to be really close to the
customer problem you're solving you're
going to have a lot of autonomy to work
with your teammates to figure out how to
solve those problems
and we're going to trust you to make
some big decisions and by the way
you're going to be really important to
the future of our company
and that is something that you know say
a google with
you know 50 000 engineers and like
you're part of the team that owns the
back button on chrome
you're like am i really having impact on
google's future am i really having an
impact on
customers you know not really right and
so i think that whatever your business
is you can you know basically tell a
story
about being a big fish in a small pond
versus a small fish in a big pond
and that's compelling for sure and
that's a really compelling
proposition and one of the things i talk
about in the book is
i think one of the things that really
helps developers want to take on those
types of responsibilities
is when they know they have the support
of executives so if you've got an
executive at a you know at a company
a ceo or one of those t-suite members
actually
giving that phone call to the to the to
the recruit or to the developers and say
hey
uh i really value what you're doing this
is really important for the company i
really hope you'll join
that goes a long way um and you know
i tell the story of how uh the ceo of
domino's
uh the ceo patrick doyle recruited the
head of
technology and domino's is this total
sleeper success story i don't know if
you followed this the stock
the domino's stock since in the last
decade has outperformed like google
and amazon and like facebook figured out
before we realized this was a market
segment
right but not only that it's not like oh
they you know they had it figured out in
the 90s but then like you know tech took
it over it's like
their stock has outperformed nearly
every stock in the same period of time
as they reinvented themselves as a
technology company
and they took all the like
infrastructure they have they have
thousands of stores all around the world
they have a great brand
and they figured out like okay if we're
not going to get disrupted
by a another pizza chain or b
just the whole world of delivery we've
got to become a tech company and they
have and what the amazing thing is
is the ceo patrick doyle went to uh
was recruiting and he talked to this guy
kevin who was the
who he was recruiting as the head of
technology and he based and
you know the story was uh he took the
meeting
mostly out of curiosity but never
thought he'd go work at a pizza company
and the ceo said this is the single most
important thing we're going to do in the
next decade
and i want you to lead it and suddenly
he took that job offer very seriously he
ended up joining
and then he did the same thing and
recruited a great tech team out of ann
arbor michigan which is where domino's
headquarters
headquartered and where i went to school
and uh built this
amazing story of technology and um and
so this idea that like the ceo is there
and i tell the story about barack obama
recruiting the founders of the u.s
digital service
yeah same story it's amazing story
actually my co-founder evan at twilio
um had recently left twilio and was
thinking about what he wanted to do next
and he got
an email from someone with a white house
email address saying hey you know are
you available for a meeting next week
and he just sort of said
sure i guess they said okay show up at
this hotel at this time
and he shows up and there's a lot of
security and
you know background checks and all this
kind of stuff and they take him up to
the
suite on the top floor and lo and behold
they see
marine one fly by and then five minutes
later
president obama walks in the door says i
need you to help me build technical
competency in the federal government
you know the healthcare.gov thing was a
fiasco like i can't believe we got
all this landmark legislation passed
provide health care to every american
and it's gonna fail because i can't get
a damn website to work
he's like i need you to come help fix
healthcare.gov
and then help make the federal
government as nimble as silicon valley
is
yeah that was an incredible story in the
book right i mean of course you're gonna
do that but let me ask you the flip side
how do you get developers to work on the
less interesting products how do you get
them to work
on refactoring on rebuilding on bug
fixes
on the nitty-gritty work the best folks
want to be inspired right they want to
be inspired either by jeff lawson or
president obama or to work on
hard problems so how do we do this how
do we get great people to work on
the less exciting parts of software well
i think if you
if you approach it from the perspective
of it's not exciting
then you know you'll probably you'll
fail might inspire that
sense in the talent as well um the two
things i would say is number one
if you if you see it as i need you to
fix bugs you're like well that doesn't
sound very exciting
but if you see it as i need you to own
this thing that our customers care about
yes and make it great and every day make
it better
and make customers love it even more
that's a very different way of phrasing
what you need to do because part of that
is listening to customers and
understanding
you know what features and functionality
we need to do sometimes it's making a
thing faster
and sometimes yeah it's fixing bugs but
when you're an owner you actually take
pride in that like you know i don't know
about you but
you know around your house do you pick
up the trash yeah is it exciting
no but do you do it because you own you
know you're like an owner you feel
responsibility for the place where you
live
yes and so instilling that sense of
ownership i think is how you actually
get
the everybody to care about even you
know the more mundane parts of of
whatever someone's job is
um and the second thing i would say is
there's certain engineers who are
great at inventing the new thing they're
great at building that prototype and
like you know pushing the boundaries out
um and there's other engineers who
aren't as good at that they're not as
good at inventing the new thing but
they're better at
maintaining they're better at scaling
they're better at fixing bugs making
things more efficient
and so understanding the types of talent
the fact that some some
developers are inventors and some are
more maintainers it's kind of like you
know i make a lot of comparisons to
sales in the book because i figure that
a lot of executives
have figured out how to work with their
sales teams maybe more so than they've
worked
they figured out how to work with their
technical talent and you know one of the
comparisons
that i would make in sales a lot of
people have an intrinsic understanding
of the fact that in sales
you've got hunters and farmers and it's
two skill sets
you know the hunters are really good at
going out there in the world and
drumming up new deals with new customers
and
just you know forging their way into a
new organization and figuring out how to
navigate it and get to the decision
maker and
make a deal happen and then other people
are really good at farmers they're good
at maintaining those relationships
they're good at doing the
um the upsell over time and they're good
at getting the renewal
and making sure customers are happy and
those are just two different skills that
you need on a sales team in order to win
and the same thing goes for developers
you've got the developers are really
good at forging the new thing and
inventing the new thing and they can
write a ton of code in one afternoon
that you know invents the new product
and there's other developers who are
really good at maintaining and scaling
and ensuring the health of existing
products so getting the right people in
the right seat is the way to think about
that
all right let me talk about something
related which is
the role of product and engineering
together the functions and
if i if i i didn't literally use a
highlighter when i read the book but i
did i did take notes
i would say the number one most
important thing for me my takeaway is
you say again and again we talked about
before assign problems not tasks your
developers right
and so to me that's the most profound
insight for business folks you've got to
assign problems not tasks or it will
break
but to to dig in on that one is
that that group of developers engineers
you talked about who are very creative
and can build that first v1 out of
nothing right that creativity
has high overlap with a head of product
right in fact
sometimes they they are as good or
better a
they certainly don't need a prd or a
spec in many cases because they've
already envisioned it in collaborating
with you right
but many engineers are not that creative
right they do need that help they do
need that spec so what's the role
between a product
and a developer engineering function how
do you as a business folks understand
that line
and make sure that the product team
isn't assigning tasks right or breaking
things and how do they leverage each
other successfully
you know i think the role of the product
team
in many ways is to direct the
focus of the rest of the team
so the product leadership like let's say
the header product well
their job is to really figure out what
teams
do i want to have and how much budget
and how much staffing do i put against
the various problems the various
customers we could be serving
yes if you say hey i'm in this market
and i'm in that market i want to solve
this problem that problem i want to go
experiment go figure out if there's a
problem i can solve for that customer
the head of products their job is really
to decide how much budget
we should put against the various things
we could be going to solve
so you staff the teams and you focus
them on a customer segment or a customer
problem
within the teams then you've got a
division of labor i think the product
leader's job is to try to direct the
effort and instead of
prevent developers from like having to
interrupt customers
is facilitating the understanding of the
customer for the rest of the team
and that can be by bringing customers in
that can be by
sharing stories that they've learned
from customers and a variety of things
but ultimately their job is to
facilitate an understanding of the
customer need and the customer problem
for the rest of the team and then
divvying up the problems that they're
going to share with that team
in order to get them working on
solutions now i don't think it's
like purely the developer's job to
to solve every problem right the product
leadership
hopefully has great insights as well so
it's not to say that the product
managers
shouldn't be involved in understanding
like how they're going to solve problems
for customers
however my point is mostly that it is
certainly not an exclusive
job of the product manager to answer
that question and then just hand the
answer to the developers
it's got to be a shared it's got to be i
love the idea i had not i'm embarrassed
i hadn't thought of before of
your head of product or your product
team's job their kpi
is to make sure your developers are
connected to your customers it's easy to
say that but whose job is it right
that can the co be great the ceo can't
do everything right so if your head of
product has a kpi
make sure all your developers have one
customer interaction a quarter that
could be magical right there right if
they own the api
i shared i shared this great story from
one of the product leaders at twilio his
name is ben
and he uh was before he was at twilio he
had he was a
cto of a startup and before that his
first job out of college was
he wrote code at a large technology
service okay it's bloomberg um he worked
at bloomberg on the terminals
and he was you know one he his team had
one of the little widgets
you see on the screen like you know that
you've seen the bloomberg terminal and
there's like a thousand widgets
everywhere well
his team owned one of those widgets and
he joined the company and one of the
first things he asked his manager is hey
you know when do we get to
like when do i get to actually you know
talk to a trader who's using my software
and the manager said oh that's a really
interesting idea we've never done that
and ben you know he's like you know
bright-eyed bushy-tailed just out of
college like
oh really like i'm surprised that we've
never talked to a customer
um i'd love to do it and he so but the
manager was sort of like well we just
don't really do that
so ben just found a friend of his that
was a trader and said hey do you mind if
i swing by the trading desk
and he did that and the friend showed
him oh yeah here's the bloomberg
terminal oh yeah here's your widget
right here
and ben was floored because when they
were writing this thing
when they were writing this widget he
had assumed that like it was the full
size of the screen like this giant you
know 24 inch screen
his widget was the full as the star of
the show and instead it was like this
tiny little thing in the corner of the
screen
that was like you know 24 pixels by 24
pixels and it was totally illegible
in fact he was startled that the trader
could even discern anything from this
little chart
and ben like went back and media was
like wait we have to rethink how we do
fonts and how we do
sizing because the reality of how people
use this is so different than how we all
imagined it
when we when we build it and uh you know
it's just a great insight that they
never would have had if they didn't
actually go
work with a customer and talk to them um
and so like that mindset
is has got to prevail and the the idea
that your product team is there to
create those
sort of interactions i think is a really
healthy way to think about it
all right two more things i want to hit
before we run out of time from the book
and from you one thing you say which i
just want to ask one because we could
spend a lot of time on it which is in
the book ask your developers what
services you should be buying
obviously twilio's at the center of that
you have line of business buyers and
developers
i was just getting caught up on fastly
you know fastly is 90
enterprise 90 deals over 100k and they
said the majority of the 100k deals the
developer makes the decision now that's
a cdn of course right
but i guess a meta question for you in
the world of not just apis but low code
and no code
is the developers are all getting even
more and more important in these buying
decisions
and uh should you empower them even more
or where's this trend going
in the next few years well yeah i think
we're still at the
early stages of this trend if you think
about um you know the fastest growing
companies in the history of software
aws stripe twilio
i mean none of us provide solutions we
provide building blocks
we provide what is essentially the
supply chain for the digital era
if you think about it every mature
industry has a mature supply chain
i'm from detroit originally so like the
auto you know you think about the auto
industry and the mature supply chain
they have there
and you know 20 years ago the software
industry was a very small number of
companies you think microsoft oracle
whatever and so
yeah they kind of built everything
themselves but now that every company is
becoming a software company
well you need a robust supply chain to
power that and that's the industry that
twilio and stripe and aws
are really the pioneers of in creating
this mature supply chain for every
company to become
good builders of software and
so i think this trend is at the very
beginning now you asked about low code
no code and our developers getting more
important less important
first of all i do take a pretty broad
view of builders there are many types of
builders inside of companies
and it's not just the software
developers there are a wide variety of
folks who given the right tooling will
be able to really impact companies by
building
and the big change here isn't like oh we
there were no developers and then we
discovered software developers
or anything like that the real change
here is in the cost of innovation has
gone down so dramatically
that that is what is driving the change
in the tool in the supply chain right so
think about 20 years ago
uh you know in the 90s and you needed
some software you needed an erp system
right like that was a
multi-million dollar multi-year
implementation time frame
huge decision only the cio could make
such a big decision in fact
implementing it took so long that
frequently you know you'd have
a more than one cio involved in leading
that program from its inception to its
completion
and by the way its completion was far
from guaranteed it's something like 60
of those projects failed
to ever deliver value anyway so it's
like you know you have this big
multi-million dollar i call it the era
of high stakes software in that world
when you have essentially one buyer
inside of a company look there's only so
much
there's only so many projects that can
get undertaken but now you look at
the technical advancements that have
happened of multi-tenancy and obviously
the internet and the cloud and all this
kind of stuff
where now a developer can get started
using twilio for a penny
and they can sign up on a website and
get started within a minute
and that just changes the whole calculus
of how companies adopt
the vendors and the tools that they need
in order to succeed
because it's not a big decision it is a
very small decision
to start building and to test the waters
of some idea you know one of the other
core ideas in the book is
experimentation is the prerequisite to
innovation
yep and every big idea starts small
and so the more things that you can try
the more experiments that you can run
the more likely a company is
to run into the next big thing and so
the
ability for a developer to get started
with very like no commitment like
there's no long-term big decision that's
been made
when you put in your credit card and
spend a dollar to start prototyping on
an idea
the cost to fail here is negligible and
so our job is to encourage people
to start experimenting to start building
because our chances of finding the next
big thing
are a direct function of how many things
that we try i love that besos
comparison to the baseball analogy says
you know we often talk about
you know taking swings at business
opportunities
and you know he says i love that analogy
but you know
the idea the one place where it falls
apart is in baseball
uh every swing at the plate the very
best you can do is hit a grand slam like
that's the best outcome possible in
baseball and you get four runs
and in business though when you take a
swing the best you can do you can you
can hit a million run homer
in business especially on the internet
in the scale of internet businesses
if you have the right idea you can hit a
million run homer and so that makes it
even more important to focus on more
swings at the plate and that's what apis
and the low cost and the low risk of
innovation that
the api ecosystem brings to every
company and so i think that it's
the best leaders are the ones who aren't
looking for reasons to say no
to new ideas um they're looking for
reasons to be able to say yes to new
ideas
but the i the whole thing is treat them
as experiments and start small and
iterate your way towards better and
better and bigger and bigger things
but every big idea starts small and try
lots of things and the api
ecosystem allows you to do it do you
think that um
that that i've certainly seen do you
think business process change management
has kept up
i mean if i if i'm allowed to use my
credit card at big co and use twilio for
a dollar or nickel right that's great
but business process change is still
tough to absorb in big companies right
and so you can you can experiment but
deploying things into production
uh it's tough to do that even more than
once a year sometimes or once a decade
for certain applications how many times
you're going to change your
communication stack right once a decade
maybe
well that's where you know there's
certain process
things and certain platform things that
companies need to focus on if they want
to be successful in this era
so the platform things are you need to
build a platform that enables your
developers to do that good work
and so i talk a lot in the book about
the infrastructure you need to empower
developers to do their best work
and again i make the comparison to sales
like if you're you know if you're an
executive
and you've got a relatively good
understanding of how sales works like
you know that
you don't just send sales people out
into the field with a paper notebook
right you
you give them crm there's sales
enablement there is
all sorts of tools that they use to
actually do their job and you recognize
how important it is
uh for making those sales people very
expensive hires good sales people
you spend a ton on them you want to make
them productive you want to help them
close their deals and by the way you
know that if
you don't provide them with a good crm
system and good process
and you know good lead management blah
blah blah like they're going to quit
they're going to find a company where
you know they are going to be more
successful and so you invest in all this
infrastructure
the same thing goes for developers you
need infrastructure to make developers
successful that's infrastructure to help
them
write code to help them ship their code
to production help them
test that code help them make sure that
it is stable logging alerts
notifications blah blah blah
and your job with that infrastructure is
to make every developer on your team
more productive and it's not at all
uncommon for great software companies to
spend
upwards of 40 even 50 percent of their
total r d budget on those platforms
because those investments are
multiplying the investments that you're
making in the other
50 of your r d investments every
customer facing
team is made that much more productive
and successful by having that
infrastructure and so if you are a
company that can ship
code once a year i mean i i would say
that you need to invest in those
platforms
to enable that iterative spirit of
software if you're going to keep up with
the
with the pace of of innovation that's
going on right now and the second thing
is process-wise
and a lot of companies have very
legitimate concerns around
oh well you know we love to iterate
quickly and experiment and let a
developer build something quickly but
this is handling customer data it has
got the brand name of our company on it
it you know so if it goes sideways it's
uh you know it could be a black eye for
the company
or if we have a security vulnerability
because we built something fast as a
prototype
you know that'll obviously break
customer trust and those are very
legitimate concerns
and so the things i would say is you
know first of all read eric reese's book
the lean startup
on how to uh how to iterate and innovate
very cheaply
quickly and inexpensively and a lot of
the ideas that he brings forth in that
book are relevant here like okay how can
you test an idea without
actually handling customer data or how
can you prototype it in a tool
that doesn't need you to deploy to your
production environment
could you build something a lot of
people are worried like oh if we try an
idea and it sucks
and we shut it down then we're going to
let down our customers going to be a
lack of customer trust there
and so one way to do it is great just
just start it as a as a
you know buy a domain name for seven
dollars and run your experiment there
now look i'm not advocating that you
should you know just because you bought
a cheap domain name you should mishandle
customer data no you have to
you have to do that really well but i
would say how do you minimize the scope
of the data that you're handling
or how do you use sort of pre-secured
assets like even just basic
off-the-shelf tools like you know google
spreadsheets and things like that
at small scale for that experimental
phase are
easy to use or fast or cheap and like
out of the gates google makes sure that
that core infrastructure is secure
and so there's certain things that you
can do to do a rapid experiment at small
scale
and then when you've proven a hypothesis
and say wow this is a great idea
instead of having a dozen customers
playing with this thing i want millions
of customers
well that's when you go back and you say
okay great how do we get into our real
production environment
or how do we apply the full um you know
gamut of testing and whatever we're
going to do to it
that's where you want to make sure of
course that you've buttoned it up but a
lot of people put that step first
they're like well
if we're going to do anything it's got
to be you know in our production
environment so that it's
behind the firewalls and blah blah blah
and you think about it that's mostly a
statement about process
versus actually getting the goals you
want because the goals you want
are to experiment quickly learn quickly
and
inexpensively while keeping your
customer information safe
and so your policies should encourage
you to achieve those goals as opposed to
say
well you know 20 years ago the way we
knew to keep our
our customer information safe was to put
it all behind this one giant firewall
you're like well actually a lot of ideas
about that sort of security have moved
on and so
you know maybe it's time to revisit to
allow certain low-scale
early-stage experiments to run with a
different set of policies
to encourage that innovation recognizing
that
you need a balance of those and that as
that gets bigger then the stakes get
higher and you can maybe
apply your more traditional policies to
it as it scales
makes sense all right so last thing i
want to hit before we're out of time
maybe we're already out of time but
you have a whole chapter in the book
which is one of my favorite parts on
recruiting and hiring developers and
sharing that learning for folks that
haven't done it before
now it's 2021 and we all became
distributed companies
what's what's changed here in recruiting
how are you thinking about this
especially as a passionate advocate of
san francisco right
and probably the office to some extent
right how has this changed uh has it has
the world totally flattened can i
can i hire developers from aruba and
bali um
is it a brand new world how are you
thinking about about this this
everyone's distributed world
well you know what's interesting uh you
know i i am a believer in san francisco
but it's not because i believe san
francisco or the bay area
has a monopoly on talent or ideas or
anything like that i'm a believer in san
francisco because it's where i live
and i believe that everybody should
invest in their local community like
wherever you are and especially if
you're in a position of privilege
and we in technology certainly are i
mean most of our businesses have fared
fairly well because we have a lot of
knowledge workers
because our products tend to be relevant
to the world i think it's incumbent upon
us to invest back in our communities
because so many other parts of our
communities have not fared
well obviously there's a catastrophe
going out there for
a lot of workers a lot of industries and
so
let's invest in our communities let's
help our communities in
in this the generational time of need
that we are looking at currently
as opposed to bailing on those
communities so that's what i believe i
you know i i believe in san francisco
because i live here and because i want
i want to invest in our community and i
want others to do it too but wherever
you are
invest in your community that's the main
point
um as far as talent goes look there's
talent everywhere
um and i think that uh reaching into
pools of talent
uh all around the world is a great thing
to do because there are talented people
uh that can help you build your company
in all sorts of places
the key thing and you get to decide in
some ways what you want the culture
and how you want the uh really the
operating system of your company to be i
won't use the word culture there but the
operating system do you
and everybody's got different beliefs
they beliefs that people sitting in the
same room are better than
you know people who are distributed and
like i won't pretend to say there's one
answer to that question
all of the above can work but i think
you need to decide what you want it to
be and then
execute that really well i think where
folks get into trouble is when they
don't have a point of view
and they have some people and
a small team who want to be in the
office and work together and
other people on that small team who are
12 time zones away and can't collaborate
together
it's like those are the messes you
create and so i believe that having a
team that works in a good way together
is the most important thing
so if that team is distributed that can
work very well my recommendation keep
them within three time zones of each
other so you've got a maximum amount of
overlap in the workday so that they can
collaborate effectively
but the nice thing about small teams is
some of your small teams can be virtual
some of your small teams can be sitting
in the same room together once that's a
possibility again
and so what's most important is that at
the small team level
you've got a working style that is
successful
and different teams can have different
working styles and that's what's
nice about those small teams and so i
would say like you know one
is you know decide if you have a strong
belief as a founder as an executive
um and recognize that you know whatever
your strong belief may be will have
impacts on the
uh uh will have impacts on the types of
talent you can hire and it's just a
trade-off do you want to
have a bigger talent pool but then
manage the logistics of a distributed
company which
aren't that hard in a lot of ways easier
than a more centralized company
or would you rather have people who can
build the camaraderie face-to-face
on a regular day-to-day basis um and
recognize that you will then focus on
hiring in a certain locale and have an
office but like
i mean these are all obvious things
there's nothing reinvented here it's
just made it
what the only thing that's changed
because of covet in my thinking
is that so many folks you know i'd say
myself included who just had the default
assumption
that we're going to be in the same place
and we're going to be in the same office
as the norm and there's always
exceptions but like the norm is
people sit in the office together uh we
it got proven to us you know by fire
here that it doesn't have to be that way
that people can work virtually largely
largely be successful
and that doesn't mean that there aren't
a whole lot of people who do want to go
back to that face-to-face interaction
but a lot of people who maybe assume
that for their career they have to be in
a certain place and show up at a certain
building for work every day
they've also realized huh you know what
like i can be
a place where i'd rather live and still
get my job done and if the company i
work for doesn't recognize that then
maybe i'll find a company that does
recognize that and so
i think agility and flexibility i think
like within twilio i suspect
when we can go back to offices there
will be a bit of a team shuffling going
on
because certain teams will say we want
to be back in an office
and other teams will say we're really
happy virtual and people will find the
teams that match their working style
and it's in its in it benefits us to be
flexible to be agile and allow those
teams to reconfigure
because if we don't allow them to
reconfigure that way then people are
going to say oh well
if twilio doesn't fit the way i want to
work then i'll go find the company that
does and obviously we want the talent to
be successful at twilio
and we want them to find the team within
twilio
that will best enable that so i think
every company if you think about agility
to your workforce as opposed to one way
for the entire company to operate
i think that's probably the answer to
how companies are going to end up
reconfiguring once
the quote unquote normal office spaces
are open again
yeah it's fun i think you know your
point of uh
assumptions we had before may have
changed like everyone has to be together
even i think
we may find there's more like the three
time zone point you made right more than
three times in the stuff i
i've invested in a lot of euro us sas
companies
where that three time zone thing was
very visceral right and it was brutal on
companies i've invested in five
parisian companies in u.s and it but you
know what i've learned since covered
they're all cool with it now they've all
that that three time zone thing has
broken apart
and we've we've had no choice and we've
gotten through it so
but i love the idea that that i know you
said it's obvious but you have to have a
point of view now as we come out of this
right you have to take these learnings
and have a strong point of view and
execute
on whatever that culture point of view
is so that you come out of this with a
with a plan right and a point of view of
what's going to work for you because
it's going to be much broader than it
was before
would you hire if you had if you had
another c-level executive hire would you
hire someone
in in paris or london or miami now do
they have to be in the bay area do you
care as much
oh we already have a distributed
executive team yeah so we
we have a head of product who lives in
seattle we have
a uh our chief people officer spends
about half her time in san diego and
obviously these are in the same time
zone which is nice
uh i just i hired a chief of staff who's
in new york
so we have already have a fairly
distributed executive team and i think
that works again i would stick to
probably the three time zone thing
um the the the challenge
you know i think what's nice about you
know kind of small teams like thinking
about your teams
teams are the core unit of execution in
a company
so a team should be within three time
zones but another team can be halfway
around the world
the only thing that changes is teams
what makes teams work is they tend to be
informal in their interactions and the
further away
another team is or the other team
members are the more formalized those
interactions tend to have to become
to for it to work that's where i like a
team to be relatively close
because you can have that informality
and then if another team is halfway
around the world
that's fine too you just have to then
formalize the interactions between those
two teams
it's all doable but if you have to
formalize the casual
interactions that team members often
have i think that's where it gets really
hard
and taxing and a lot more really late
night or very early
you know interactions that you know get
trying and people
yeah grind people just wear out from it
all right so www
ask i've yourdeveloper.com it
um if you
have or haven't if you've if you're
managing an engineering team a product
team developers for the first time or
the sixth time
read this book if it's the first time
your eyes will be opened it is different
than most of us think if it's your sixth
time you'll nod your head when you read
jeff's and other stories
and you'll realize why you made some
mistakes and why you're doing better any
any other last thoughts you want to
leave us on the book or in general in
2021 jeff
well thank you jason i appreciate you
reading it i appreciate your kind words
i also want to point out that all the
proceeds from the book
are going to help more people especially
those from underrepresented populations
enter the technology field and so the
proceeds are are supporting
organizations who are educating
folks like veterans there's an
organization npower
europe who helps young adults and
particularly from black and latinx
communities to enter the technology
field smash which helps high school
students enter fields of stem
particularly black latinx and native
american populations
as well as black girls code and so a lot
of really amazing organizations are out
there helping
folks enter the field of technology and
create
a more diverse and inclusive industry
for us and so
we're proud to be supporting those
organizations with the proceeds from the
book so
if you do buy the book know that you
will be helping those organizations
because all proceeds are going to help
them
all right well thank you jeff i look
forward to the second book hopefully
sometime
early 2022 or so we could riff on topics
if you want
and we'll talk to you soon thank you
thank you jason
you